hello everybody my name is J I'm one of
the expert teachers here at e to
language and E to school if you haven't
seen those websites do check them out
they can help you a lot so we've been
doing some videos on first language
interference that is if you speak say
Malayalam what happens when you speak
English with the sounds that you make
the pronunciation sometimes there is an
interference so these have been pretty
popular and the one we're going to do
today is on Dravidian languages which
include languages such as Malayalam and
Telugu etc so let's have a look let's do
i alt pronunciation for Tamil Telugu
Kannada and Malayalam speakers okay so
what are the main differences between
English and these Dravidian languages
what we're going to do is actually focus
on the Tomio language but if you do
speak Kannada or Malayalam or Telugu you
can this will apply to you as well
because the languages are quite similar
okay so the main differences between
English and Tamil are in terms of
pronunciation in English there are 22
vowel sounds in Tamil there are only 12
vowel sounds so while Tamil has most of
the short vowel sounds English has a lot
of long vowel sounds or diphthongs
so we're going to focus on that in this
lesson I'm going to show you how to
pronounce some of those longer English
vowel sounds
also there are 24 consonant sounds in
English that could fermer etc Tamil has
almost all of them but there are some
consonant sounds that Tammy doesn't have
like fur and zip for example so we're
going to focus on those as well cool so
let's get started
let's look at the vowel sounds for tummy
all Telugu Kannada and Malayalam
speakers so let's look at some of the
common problems here's the
common problem as I mentioned English
has lots of these multi vowel sounds so
multi vowel sound is when you take two
vowels like a and I and it becomes a e a
or our our it's like two vowels when
you're gliding across two sounds at once
but in your language you don't have
these sounds so what you tend to do is
put the two vowels together and say them
both here are some examples so multi
vowels become two short vowels for
example the word paint with the multi
Val heyyyyyy AE paint paint actually
quite distinctly becomes paint paint
paint paint instead of paint paint paint
a pound our au becomes power and power
and power wind power and it's almost
like there's two sounds here instead of
one sound so what you need to
concentrate on doing is combining those
two sounds into the one multi vowel
sound we'll do some practice in a minute
the second common problem for Dravidian
speakers is that of course and this is
very natural you follow your Dravidian
speaking pattern so apparently there's a
popular supermarket in the south of
India called food world food world but a
lot of Dravidian speakers say food of
all the food er world and this little
vowel sound all the sudden gets inserted
between the dip and the what sound there
or vegetable vegetable in English
becomes vegetable where G double where G
topple instead of vegetable okay now
that's completely normal that you would
follow your original or first language
when speaking English but if you do want
to get a high score on one of these
tests for example or you just want to be
easily understood by a native English
speaker you do need to think about how
well not necessarily a native English
speaker says it but you need to think
about the interference of your first
language
cool we'll do some practice on that this
is also a common problem so this is the
long o sound oh oh as in coat coat coat
coat coat but sometimes for Dravidian
speakers it can become cut or caught for
example so if I'm listening to a
Dravidian speak and they say do you have
a rain coat do you have a rain cut when
in fact they should be making that a
long sound do you have a rain coat coat
coat coat sounds good cut sounds wrong
for example cool ok so what I'm going to
do is skip the short vowel sounds
because there's not much of a problem
between Dravidian and English right
Dravidian languages and the English
language with short vowel sounds the big
problems come with these multi vowel
sounds these longer a for example oh
these long vowel sounds so let's do some
practice here so in English we actually
have how many three six nine ten of them
in Dravidian languages you have two so
you have a as in wait that's fine an owl
is in cow that's fine but what about my
my and boy boy and show show and here
here and hair hair and tourists tourists
and fire fire and power power so let's
take a look at my this long I type of
sound well it's like like like please
feel free to repeat after me if you need
to practice this like like right right
time time cry-cry
my my you can hear the two vowel sounds
in months so it's not me it's not Crete
it's not Tim it's time cry my what about
this one here boy
oi oi oi oi sound let's do this together
so it's toy toy boy boy annoy annoy or
oh I sounds like foil foil or coin coin
another problematic multi vowel sound is
oh oh oh oh let's do these ones here as
in go go go or show show show or loan
loan loan or though though though or
even funny spelling like is e w like so
so so so what can happen here is if you
have a word like loan loan loan often a
concern like Lon Lon Lon so try to
extend that o sound out oh oh oh
cool alright next one is year year as in
here here here here so words like here
here here or career career career or
again here here here near near near or
even words like idea idea idea make sure
you're pronouncing those intelligibly
let's do air air as in hair hair so
words like pair pair pair or stair stair
stay
or fair fair fair or even at the
beginning of a word like aeroplane
aeroplane aeroplane or bear bear bear
cool this one's kind of tricky
this is like an Laura Laura Laura sound
in English as in tourists tourists
tourists or tor tor tor or QR q er QR or
fewer fewer fewer or Oh this was
possibly the most challenging word to
say in English even I struggle with this
one rural rural rural rah-rah-rah
it's a funny multi-valve sound in
english alright second last one is IR IR
IR as in fire so let's do tire tire tire
or liar liar liar or pliers pliers
pliers or aspire aspire aspire or even a
word like deep fryer fryer fryer if
you're saying these and it feels kind of
strange like it feels unnatural it feels
like you're faking it that's actually
correct it might feel weird to you to
say these sounds like this because
you're just not used to it it's not what
comes from your first language but to my
ear when you're saying these longer
multi vowel sounds correctly I'm like
yes that's correct
that sounds perfect well done okay so in
the beginning when you're starting to
make these sounds and they're probably
correct it may feel a bit weird so you
just have to push through until it
becomes natural or normalized for you
cool last one our our our is in power
power power so where it's like our our
our
or tower tower tower or flower flower
flower or cower tower tower or even just
the pronoun our our our it's also a
difficult one to say okay we've gone
through the vowel sounds and they're
pretty tricky now what we're going to do
is have a look at the consonant sound so
what a vowel sound is actually is it's a
sound that we make when we don't use our
lips teeth tongue or anything like that
it's a sound that comes straight from
the voice box without being interrupted
by the mouth like ah ye Oh for example
consonant sounds are sounds that
actually use your teeth your tongue the
roof of your mouth your lips etc and
actually stop the air in some way coming
through that's the difference between a
vowel and a consonant so let's have a
look at the problematic consonant sounds
for Tamil Telugu Kannada and Malayalam
speakers just before we do that if
you're watching this on youtube you
should click that subscribe button the
reason is we're going to continue to
make videos like this and one of the
ones that is coming up will be the
grammar issues you face when you're a
Tamil Telugu Kannada Malayalam speaker
and you have to write or speak in
English and their grammatical issues
that come from your first language into
English for example articles or overuse
of particular verb tenses so we're going
to make videos on those so do click that
subscribe button become a subscriber so
you can find out when we release those
videos cool ok here are all of the
consonant sounds in English but for the
sorry the search engine let rap jet work
in her they are all of them the
problematic ones are the purp the
and hmm the reasons why these are
problematic is perhaps they just don't
exist in your first language or maybe
they exist but in a slightly different
way for example the difference between
per and but for example which we're
going to focus on as well so let's just
look at some general problems when
saying consonant sounds the main one is
for Dravidian languages your tongue is
curled up in your mouth when you speak
you curl your tongue up and you use the
roof of your mouth when you're speaking
a lot in English we don't do this very
much our tongues are not curled up
they're sort of out and we use the back
of our teeth a lot when we're speaking
okay so this is very try to be conscious
of this when we're going through some of
these sounds to uncurl your tongue okay
let's try this so words like think for
Dravidian speakers to me it sounds like
you're saying instead of
think think think and the reason is to
say think properly your tongue your top
teeth actually rests on your tongue I
think think think not
that's when you've got your tongue
curled up or another one is the voiced
then then then becomes denne denne denne
so we'll do some work on that in tamil
and other Dravidian languages there are
no aspirated consonants what I mean by
that is if you are in saying the sound
for example in English if you put your
hand here put poop you can actually feel
the air hit your hand okay apparently in
tnel you do not have any of these
aspirated consonants that's why when I'm
listening to you and you're saying purp
it might sound like butt butt-butt-butt
because when I say but there's no air
coming out
so when you're speaking English and some
of these consonants that are aspirated
per you actually need to push push air
out of your mouth it just makes it sound
natural I guess or native like so we're
going to do some work on consonants like
purposes but to also aspirated verses
dirt and cut aspirated versus good
another problem is that in Tamil and
other Dravidian languages there's no
distinction between voiced and unvoiced
so the difference between burp and purr
for example is well one per is aspirated
but bur is voiced okay it comes from but
if you put your hand here but but but
versus purt purt purt one of them is
making a sound at the throat level now
in English we distinguish between voiced
and unvoiced and when we use a voiced or
we when we use an unvoiced it makes a
particular sound which makes a
particular meaning which gives a
particular word meaning to the listener
but in your language there's no
distinction between these two so that's
problematic okay number four in English
if we're saying two of the same
consonant sounds like sure and sure as
in Dutch cheese we distinguish between
the two I say can I have some Dutch
cheese please Dutch cheese but
apparently in Dravidian languages often
these can combine and when you combine
them when you're speaking English it
sounds like Dutch cheese Dutch cheese
instead of Dutch cheese Dutch cheese so
just be conscious that if you are if
there are two consonant sounds together
you do need to say them both in English
also number five there is no sound in
Tamil so lazy becomes Laci and there's
no F sound in Tamil as in
so full can become pull for example
let's do some practice now let's look at
the difference between dirt and therm
so dirt is unaffected and the tongue is
curled up what we want to do is aspirate
it so you want to feel the air on the
back of your hand there and your tongue
needs to unroll and hit the back of your
teeth so again it might feel weird for
you to do this it might seem strange but
for my ear the native speaker it's like
yes that's perfect well done I can
understand you so don't say that if
you're trying to say that that that
[Music]
don't say duh if you're trying to say
the DA that don't say dro if you're
trying to say throw throw throw
don't say dink
if you're trying to say think think
think
don't say dunder if you're trying to say
thunder thunder thunder again sounds
strange or seem strange but thunder
thunder thunder thunder don't say dumb
if you're trying to say some dumb thumb
dumb thumb there's a difference alright
let's look at the difference between
Burton pert and go incur this is
unloaded versus aspirated sounds we'll
start with Burton perp don't say that if
you're trying to say
Pat bat Pat what I want you to do when
you're saying the words in green is put
your hand here
pat pat that bat Pat if you're doing it
correctly you should feel the air hits
your hand Pat don't say bye if you're
trying to say hi
by pi don't say big if you're trying to
say pig pig pig
don't say blade if you're trying to say
played blade played I played crickets I
did not lay crickets don't say bride if
you're trying to say pride pride pride
don't say blunder if you're trying to
say plunder plunder plunder okay this
time it's dirt versus turf again please
uncurl your tongue make your tongue hit
your teeth not the roof of your mouth do
- don't say do if you want to say -
don't say die if you want to say tie-dye
tie-dye say dry if you want to say try
try try yeah that one's a little bit
different actually that's my mistake
that's more of a trip sound so just
actually forget that one don't say dick
if you want to say tick tick tick tick
tick what I'm making the difference is
here if I'm saying dick dick dick
it's my tongue is hitting the top of my
mouth just behind my teeth but when I'm
saying tech as in technology to tip my
tongue is actually just touching my
front the back of my front teeth tick
tick tick just don't say duck if you
want to say tuk tuk tuk don't say dent
if you want to say tent dent tent okay
this time it's good versus Curt again if
you're saying this correctly if you're
saying that Curt sound correctly you
should be able to feel it on your hand
cooker not so much not like purr
it's good most of goes downwards
actually but there's a little bit of air
coming out if I'm saying good good good
it's at my throat this time I want to
push the air out cook cook cook it's a
bit lighter you have to put your hand a
bit closer so don't say game if you want
to say came game came
don't say glass if you want to say class
glass class
don't say guard if you want to say card
god card
don't say goat if you want to say coat
goat coat
don't say glue if you want to say clue
clue clue clue clue
don't say ground if you want to say
crown'd ground ground ground ground one
has the cook cook aspirated to sound the
air is coming out for the cut sound
alright this time we're going to look at
verses zip because apparently in Tamil
at least there is no zip sound so let's
do some practice of the zip sound don't
say sip if you want to say zip zip zip
[Music]
this time it's kind of the opposite zip
zip if you're doing that zip sound
correctly if you put your hand on your
throat you can feel it vibrating if
you're saying it's it's not vibrating
your throat so this is called voiced
it's
that is correct zip zip zip
cool let's keep going so don't say so if
you want to say zone sone zone don't say
ace if you want to say you got straight
A's Hayes Hayes
don't say device if you want to say
device device device
don't say face if you want to say phase
phase phase
don't say excuse if you want to say
excuse excuse excuse okay last one this
is the difference between put and fer
because again apparently in tunnel at
least there is no foot sound so let's
have a look at some of these so don't
say pull if you want to say full pull
full pull full when I'm making this
sound my top teeth are on my bottom lip
and I'm pushing air through fur fur firm
put put put is there on foot foot
foot for the full sound
don't say pawn if you want to say phone
or pone phone phone phone
don't say pickle if you want to say
fickle pickle fickle don't say plight if
you want to say flight planked flight
don't say pierce if you want to say
fierce pierce fierce and don't say apply
if you want to say a fly apply a fly
cool
that is it for Dravidian speakers they
are the main pronunciation issues when
you're speaking your first language and
then you're speaking English but there's
interference your first language is
coming through to English so you need to
try to be conscious of those errors
just so you can be understood more
easily okay and so you can get a high
score on your test
for example now what I want you to do
now is check out eetu language comm if
you're doing test prep like Pte
IELTS Oh a or TOEFL or if you just want
to improve your general English such as
your pronunciation or your vocabulary or
your grammar or you want to do some
general English play practice practice
check out a to school comm these are two
fabulous websites that will help you a
lot and if you're not yet a subscriber
hit that subscribe button I hope that
was helpful please let me know what you
think in the comments below which sounds
do you have problems out of all of the
ones I just mentioned which particular
sounds do you have issues with when
speaking English
thanks very much my name is Jay I will
see you soon
[Music]